[Music]
how to get your kids to stop throwing
tantrums Brightside has good news for
you you can stop your kids from whining
begging and going wild for no particular
reason if you follow some tips from
experts in education and trusted
parenting sources we should know our
enemy well enough to defeat it in this
case temper tantrums are the enemy they
are very common in kids aged one to four
more than half of kids let their
frustration out at least once a week or
more often why do they do it they can
whine to get a new toy an extra candy or
some other unhealthy snack or maybe they
just want your attention or our testing
limits yes they have no idea what limits
are but they can still figure out that
crying loudly can bring them a treat so
why not do it by the time they turn 3 or
4 kids have much better language skills
than babies of course but their
vocabulary is still not advanced enough
to describe everything they feel so what
can you do to prevent your kids from
going crazy now and then here is a list
number 10 make your child feel
comfortable as we already know kids
often whined for a reason and you can
neutralize that reason before going out
shopping or wherever you have to go with
your little one make sure they are
prepared for it which means they had
enough sleep enough food and you have
everything they might need with you it
won't hurt to take a toy to the grocery
store and it might save your child from
begging for another one if you are going
out for a longer time take their
favorite blanket with you it will give
them a feeling of home and safety when
you are a parent you tend to take plenty
of stuff with you
even when you leave the house for an
hour if someone is making fun of you let
them the most important thing is that
you both feel comfortable and prepared
for whatever may come your way
number nine
let your toddler choose according to
WebMD medical reference it is a good
idea to let your child choose we are not
talking about making life defining
decisions like which house to move in or
where to go on vacation start with
little things which will make him or her
feel like they are in control control
also means responsibility they will of
course not know it just now but they
will see how their choices affect what
they do and how they feel you can also
go smart about it and direct your child
where you want them to be just give them
an alternative where both options are
good for example you can wake them up in
the morning and offer to choose if they
want to get dressed first or brush their
teeth they will have to do both
eventually but this way they will feel
like they are given some choice number 8
find out what's really bothering your
kid this is especially important for
kids under two-and-a-half explains J
hooker MD a pediatrician from Rochester
Minnesota at this age they have a
vocabulary of around 50 words and can't
build a sentence out of them but they
still have cravings thoughts and wishes
they can't just announce to you you
don't get the message they don't get the
answer so what do they do throw a
tantrum doctor Hoecker offers the
following solution try to create a sign
language your kid will understand and
remember teach them to show basic words
like food milk sleep and so on it can
work miracles
number seven distract your little one
you know how when you feel sad or
something is bothering you going out
with friends or reading a book can help
you set your mind on other things and it
gets better your child will unlikely be
getting over a breakup or a job loss but
they have their own concerns as we know
when you feel danger is coming the
baby's face is reddening or they are
giving other signs of a tantrum to
follow distract them let's go for a walk
how about we read your favorite book
these are all great ways to divert your
child's fleeting attention even telling
a little joke or making a funny face can
help says the experts from WebMD medical
reference number 6 become a good teacher
for your kid do you remember your
favorite teacher click like if you do
but how about you become that favorite
teacher for your own kid first of all
stop being angry at them for throwing
tantrums a great teacher won't be mad at
you for not being good at physics right
second teach your little one to overcome
frustration show them that drawing
reading a book or cuddling with their
favorite toy can help and make sure you
teach them words are much better heard
and understood than screaming Michael
Borba EDD author of parents do make a
difference
explains that kids really want to do
what is right but sometimes they just
don't know what that is explain your
concerns and fears never yell in front
of your kid you could even make up an
angry vocabulary for your child that
would be a list of words to express
negative emotions number 5 do not
provoke tantrums why would you ever do
it well we are not saying you want that
to happen but you might trigger them
your kid loves candy but too much is bad
for him or her then do not put it where
they can see it why remind them of
something you don't want them to have
your kid doesn't like to be forcefully
interrupted or feels uncomfortable about
doing certain things give them warning
before they have to do it and explain
why it is necessary the activity itself
might not last long but the tantrum and
bad mood could last for hours
number four use positive words millions
of people in 47 countries around the
world love Supernanny this modern-day
mary poppins gives great parenting
advice one of the things she suggests is
using positive advice instead of the
negative every time you feel like
screaming no don't
and stop don't do it don't jump on the
couch could motivate your kid to do the
opposite especially if they are Moody
Furniture is for sitting you could go
outside if you want to jump sounds much
better and is unlikely to lead to
conflict number three keep a straight
face introduce the new family rule to
your kid when he or she starts whining
you have the right not to respond to
them if that happens keep your face
straight Jane Nelson EDD co-author of
positive discipline for preschoolers
recommend that you also introduce a
warning sign which will show you are
going to stop listening pull your ear
shake your head it could be anything you
choose number two give praise when the
kid deserves it we are not just talking
about money here your baby will unlikely
appreciate it anyway
thank the kids for doing the right thing
dr. michele Borba thinks it is a good
idea to say things like thank you for
using your normal voice or my ears love
that voice do not feel awkward about
giving thanks for the most basic things
motivate them to behave well in exchange
for little treats tell your boy if he
makes it through family dinner without
whining you will let him watch his
favorite cartoon right after
number one be smart about the pocket
money all families are different and
have different income there is no
Universal answer for how much pocket
money to give your kid in numbers
rooster money a resource fully focused
on how you should go about pocket money
for your child offers an allowance
report it says four-year-olds get an
average of 2 dollars and 82 cents this
amount is slowly growing and doubles by
the time the kid turns 9 an average
14-year old gets 879 a week pocket money
should allow the kid to save money for a
special toy they like buy gifts for
their siblings and other family members
go out with their friends buy a movie
ticket for example if you give your
child too much they will find it hard to
know the value of money
your kids should know money is earned
not just granted and it goes when it is
spent some parents pay their kids for
doing chores around the house it is not
always a good idea because they might
believe the only reason to do something
for their family's good is to be paid
dr. Rebecca cheek or author of the calm
and happy toddler and co-founder of a
central parent source recommends giving
your child tokens not real money you
decide how much these tokens are worth
saving them kids can pay for meaningful
experiences actually there is no single
rule for all families just like you have
your own attitude to your money you can
decide about your kids pocket money too
[Music]
we hope you find these tips useful if so
hit the like button and click subscribe
to join us on the bright side